Begin learning resources page (#155)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/03-guides/04-general/01-learning-resources.mdx

---
section: Guides
chapter: General
title: Learning Resources
description: Where to find out how to learn about the various aspects of NUbots.
slug: /guides/general/learning-resources
---

> This page aims to provide direction and resources on where to go to learn more about various areas of NUbots. There is a mixture of resources available, including external resources and material prepared by NUbots team members. The main resources are Reading pages, videos and workshops. Workshops are run in lab, or on Zoom when not possible to do in the lab, by a member of the team. LinkedIn Learning has many great videos, some of which are linked here - as a UoN student, you can get access to LinkedIn Learning for free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page aims to provide direction and resources on where to go to learn more about various areas of NUbots. There is a mixture of resources available, including external resources and material prepared by NUbots team members. The main resources are reading pages, videos and workshops. Workshops are run in lab, or on Zoom when not possible to do in the lab, by a member of the team. LinkedIn Learning has many great videos, some of which are linked here - as a UoN student, you can get access to LinkedIn Learning for free.
```

Author: lol this is actually meant to be 'NUbook pages', the 'Reading' heading used to be 'NUbook' and I just did a find and replace 😆

## General

### Git

The NUbots team uses Git and GitHub in its development workflow. Almost any project done on the NUbots team will involve using Git and GitHub.

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Git and PR Workflow](/guides/general/git)

**Videos:**

> - LinkedIn Learning: Git Concepts

Reviewer: Are these supposed to be links?

Author: Yep, I just need to find some good videos. I have some links to LinkedIn Learning videos but I'll need to watch them to see what is actually useful.

Author: I'm leaving these out for now because none of the ones I saw really had what I wanted. I think it'd be better to edit what we already have any use that.

- LinkedIn Learning: Git Command Line
- LinkedIn Learning: GitKraken
- LinkedIn Learning: GitHub Desktop

> **Tutorials:**

Author: I'm not sure on the heading. Stuff in here includes NUbots workshops, online courses and online tutorials.

Reviewer: I like tutorials

### Linear Algebra

Linear Algebra is important for many robotics systems. In the main robot codebase, the [Eigen C++ linear algebra library](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/) is used.

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Mathematics](/system/foundations/mathematics#linear-algebra)

### Log and Play Back Data

**Reading:**

- [Data Recording and Playback Guide](/guides/main/data-recording-playback)
- [Logging](/system/subsystems/logging)

### Python

Python is used in the build system in the main robot codebase.

**Videos:**

- [LinkedIn Learning: Python Essential Training](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/python-essential-training-2/)

### RoboCup Competition

**Reading:**

- [RoboCup Humanoid League: Rules of the Game](https://humanoid.robocup.org/materials/rules/)

**Videos:**

- [YouTube: Referee Training Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHOtAklrcJU)

## DevOps and Quality Assurance

### The Build System

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Build System](https://nubook.nubots.net/system/foundations/build-system)

### Docker

**Reading:**

- [Book: Docker Deep Dive](https://www.amazon.com.au/Docker-Deep-Dive-Nigel-Poulton-ebook/dp/B01LXWQUFF)

## DevTools

### Web Development

> Web Development is used in the creation of [NUbook](/system/tools/nubook), which uses JavaScript and Gatsby, and [NUsight](/system/tools/nusight), which uses TypeScript and React. By working on these systems and going through these resources, you will gain valuable real world experience that is often sought out in industry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web Development is used in the creation of [NUbook](/system/tools/nubook), which uses JavaScript and Gatsby, and [NUsight](/system/tools/nusight), which uses TypeScript, React and MobX. By working on these systems and going through these resources, you will gain valuable real world experience that is often sought out in industry.
```

**Videos:**

- [egghead.io: MobX](https://egghead.io/courses/manage-complex-state-in-react-apps-with-mobx)

**Tutorials:**

- [The Modern JavaScript Tutorial](https://javascript.info/)
- [Official Node.js Tutorial](https://nodejs.dev/learn)
- [egghead.io: A Beginner's Guide to React](https://egghead.io/courses/the-beginner-s-guide-to-react)
- [Official Webpack Tutorial](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/)

> **Mixed:**

Author: Not sure where to put these, so I made this section. Maybe just put them all under 'Tutorials'?

Reviewer: Maybe "Resources" ?

Author: Hm maybe, but everything would fit under that. I did consider 'Miscellaneous' or 'Other' or 'Extra'.

chapter: General
title: Learning Resources
description: Where to find out how to learn about the various aspects of NUbots.
slug: /guides/general/learning-resources
---

This page aims to provide direction and resources on where to go to learn more about various areas of NUbots. There is a mixture of resources available, including external resources and material prepared by NUbots team members.

NUbots workshops may be run live, or you can work through them yourself in your own time.

The majority of resources on this page are free. Some LinkedIn Learning videos are linked here - UoN students can get access to LinkedIn Learning for free.

## General

<details>
<summary>Git</summary>

The NUbots team uses Git and GitHub in its development workflow. Almost any project done on the NUbots team involves using Git and GitHub.

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Git and PR Workflow](/guides/general/git)

**Tutorials:**

- [NUbots Workshop: Git and the PR workflow](https://github.com/NUbots/GitDemos)

</details>

<details>
<summary> C++ </summary>

The C++ programming language is used in the main robot codebase. Modern C++ and advanced C++ concepts are used in the codebase.

**Reading:**

> - [C++ Official Documentation](https://en.cppreference.com/)

Author: Unofficial Official Documentation? 😆

> - [C++ Official Documentation](https://en.cppreference.com/)

Author: ```suggestion
- [C++ Documentation](https://en.cppreference.com/)
```

**Videos:**

- [LinkedIn Learning: C++ Basics](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/c-plus-plus-essential-training)
- [LinkedIn Learning: C++ Advanced Topics](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/c-plus-plus-advanced-topics?u=75842122)
- [YouTube: CppCon](https://www.youtube.com/user/CppCon)

**Tutorials:**

- [NUbots Workshop: Modern C++](https://github.com/NUbots/NULearning/blob/master/cpp/moderncpp.md)

</details>

<details>
<summary>NUClear</summary>

The NUbots robot code uses the NUClear framework. Anyone developing robot code needs to learn how to work with NUClear. NUClear was created at NUbots as part of a Software Engineering FYP.

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: NUClear](/system/foundations/nuclear)

**Videos:**

- [YouTube: NUClear Basic Concepts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bx4yU-eA6bk&t=17m00s)
- [YouTube: NUClear Example](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bx4yU-eA6bk&t=32m00s)

> **Resources:**

Author: They are linked on the NUbook page, but yeah sure can add them in.

- [GitHub: NUClear](https://github.com/Fastcode/NUClear)
- [GitHub: NUClear Roles](https://github.com/Fastcode/NUClearRoles)
- [GitHub: NUClearNet](https://github.com/Fastcode/NUClearNet.js)
- [GitHub: NUClearExample](https://github.com/Fastcode/NUClearExample)

</details>

<details>
<summary>Robot Code</summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Getting Started](/guides/main/getting-started)
- [NUbook: System Overview](/system/foundations/overview)
- [NUbook: Troubleshooting](/guides/general/troubleshooting)
- [NUbook: Glossary](/guides/general/glossary)

**Resources:**

- [GitHub: Robot Code](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots)

</details>

<details>
<summary> RoboCup Competition </summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: RoboCup Resources](/team/robocup/resources)

**Videos:**

- [YouTube: Referee Training Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHOtAklrcJU)
- [YouTube: RoboCupSoccer Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BN7t9dTbRyI)

</details>

<details>

> <summary> Using Webots </summary>

Reviewer 2: (Super minor thing!) you have spaces around some of the `summary` text parts, but not others. It's inconsistent
```suggestion
<summary>Using Webots</summary>
```

The Webots simulator is used in some RoboCup competitions and is the simulator we use to aid in development of the robots.

**Reading:**

- [Setting up Webots](/guides/tools/webots-setup)
- [Webots User Guide](https://cyberbotics.com/doc/guide/index)

**Resources:**

- [GitHub: NUWebots](https://github.com/NUbots/NUWebots)

> - [GitHub: Webots (Official)](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots)

Reviewer 2: "Official" makes it sound like its the one which would be used, which is precisely what it's not

Author: Maybe 'original'?

Author: ```suggestion
- [GitHub: Webots (Original Version)](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots)
```

- [GitHub: Webots (TC Version)](https://github.com/RoboCup-Humanoid-TC/webots)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Mathematics </summary>

> Mathematics is integral part of any robotics system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mathematics is an integral part of any robotics system.
```

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Mathematics](/system/foundations/mathematics#linear-algebra)

> - [Eigen C++ Linear Algebra Library](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/)

Reviewer 2: I would link the eigen source too. The eigen docs have been known (by me) to kinda stink

**Videos:**

- [3Blue1Brown: Essence of Linear Algebra](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDPD3MizzM2xVFitgF8hE_ab)

**Tutorials:**

> - [MIT Open Courseware: Linear Algebra](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06-linear-algebra-spring-2010/video-lectures/)

Reviewer 2: I don't think I would call this a "tutorial". It's a full course lecture series. I would be surprised when I clicked it expecting a tutorial

Author: Videos?

**Resources:**

> - [Wolfram Alpha](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/)

Reviewer 2: I would make it clearer that this isn't a link to the wolfram alpha computation thing you use when you're looking to plot something or check a calculation - this is "mathworld", which is their wiki thing

Author: Oh lol true I didn't even notice that

</details>

<details>
<summary> Python </summary>

> Python is used in the build system in the main robot codebase.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't necessarily constrain python to the build system. Does interfacing with nbs files count as the build system? Does moving files onto a robot count as part of the build system? Does running binaries count as part of the build system? Some of the stuff we use python for is in a fairly grey area in this respect. I suggest saying it's used for managing code too? Idk

Author: 'tools'?

Reviewer 2: :shrug: sure?

- [YouTube: 3Blue1Brown: Neural Networks](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDNU6R1_67000Dx_ZCJB-3pi)
- [YouTube: DeepLizard: Machine Learning & Deep Learning Fundamentals](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gZmobeGL0Yg&list=PLZbbT5o_s2xq7LwI2y8_QtvuXZedL6tQU)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Log and Play Back Data </summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Data Recording and Playback Guide](/guides/main/data-recording-playback)
- [NUbook: Logging](/system/subsystems/logging)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Lab Induction </summary>

The lab induction must be completed before getting swipe card access to the lab.

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Lab Induction](/team/induction)

**Tutorials:**

- NUbots lab inductions are run for new team members after they join.

</details>

## Behaviour

<details>
<summary>General</summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook](/system/subsystems/behaviour)

**Resources:**

- [GitHub: GameController](https://github.com/RoboCup-Humanoid-TC/GameController)
- [GitHub: Communication Protocol](https://github.com/RoboCup-Humanoid-TC/RobocupProtocol)

</details>

## DevOps and Quality Assurance

<details>
<summary> The Build System </summary>

**Reading:**

> - [NUbook: Build System](https://nubook.nubots.net/system/foundations/build-system)

Reviewer 2: This link is for nubook.nubots.net, instead of being a relative link.

Author: ```suggestion
- [NUbook: Build System](/system/foundations/build-system)
```

- [NUbook: Configuration and Script System](/system/foundations/config-script)
- [Modern CMake](https://cliutils.gitlab.io/modern-cmake/)
- [ArchWiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/)

> - [Book: Docker Deep Dive](https://www.amazon.com.au/Docker-Deep-Dive-Nigel-Poulton-ebook/dp/B01LXWQUFF)

Reviewer 2: Is amazon the way we want to link books?

Reviewer: Down with amazon >:(

Author: Probably not, it's just the link I got from Yoshi

Author: I can't find any great link. Options I can see:
- Google (only link I can find that isn't a seller): https://books.google.com.au/books/about/Docker_Deep_Dive.html?id=860yswEACAAJ
- Book Repository (cheap hardcopy): https://www.bookdepository.com/Docker-Craig-Berg/9798657599404
- Booktopia (cheap ebook): https://www.booktopia.com.au/docker-deep-dive-nigel-poulton/ebook/1230004026020.html

Reviewer 2: I think google books link is good

> - [Book: Docker Deep Dive](https://books.google.com.au/books/about/Docker_Deep_Dive.html?id=860yswEACAAJ)

Reviewer 2: Catch repo/docs too please. (The docs are literally just markdown files in the docs folder of the repo)

**Tutorials:**

- [Official CMake Tutorial](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial/index.html)

</details>

## DevTools

<details>
<summary> Web Development (External) </summary>

> Web Development is used in the creation of [NUbook](/system/tools/nubook), which uses JavaScript, Gatsby and Tailwind, and [NUsight](/system/tools/nusight), which uses TypeScript, React and MobX. By working on these systems and going through these resources, you will gain valuable real world skills and experience that is often sought out in industry.

Reviewer 2: The plural makes this sound a little funny to me
```suggestion
Web Development is used in the creation of [NUbook](/system/tools/nubook), which uses JavaScript, Gatsby and Tailwind, and [NUsight](/system/tools/nusight), which uses TypeScript, React and MobX. By working on these systems and going through these resources, you will gain valuable real world skill and experience that is often sought out in industry.
```

**Videos:**

- [egghead.io: MobX](https://egghead.io/courses/manage-complex-state-in-react-apps-with-mobx)

**Tutorials:**

- [The Modern JavaScript Tutorial](https://javascript.info/)
- [Official Node.js Tutorial](https://nodejs.dev/learn)
- [egghead.io: A Beginner's Guide to React](https://egghead.io/courses/the-beginner-s-guide-to-react)
- [Official Webpack Tutorial](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/)

**Resources:**

- [MDN Web Docs: JavaScript Resources](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
- [Official TypeScript Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/)
- [Official React Documentation](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Official MobX Documentation](https://mobx.js.org/README.html)
- [Official Gatsby Documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)
- [Official Tailwind Documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs)

</details>

<details>

> <summary> Web Development (Internal) </summary>

Reviewer 2: I am not that enthused by these `(Internal)` and `(External)` headings. It seems to me like that could be a strange distinction for someone unfamiliar with these systems

Author: I'm also not that enthused. Also considered separating NUbook and NUsight, but NUbook then clashes with Documentation.

Author: Changed it to External Resources and NUbots Resources - how does that sound?

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: NUbook](/system/tools/nubook)
- [Australian Network on Disability: A Beginner's Guide to Accessible Content](https://www.and.org.au/pages/a-beginners-guide-to-accessible-content.html)

**Tutorials:**

- [Google Technical Writing Course](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing) - free, in-class sessions are open to the public!

</details>

## Hardware

<details>
<summary>Soccer Robot</summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Hardware Overview and Specifications](/system/hardware/overview)
- [NUbook: Input](/system/subsystems/input)
- [NUbook: Flashing a Robot](/guides/hardware/flashing)

**Resources:**

- [GitHub: NUware](https://github.com/NUbots/NUware)

</details>

## Localisation and Odometry

<details>
<summary> Particle Filters </summary>

**Videos:**

- [YouTube: Introduction to Autonomous Navigation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fw8JQ5Q-ZwU)
- [YouTube: Understanding the Particle Filter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NrzmH_yerBU)

> - [YouTube: Monte Carlo Localisation and Particle Filters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MsYlueVDLI0&t=1608s)

Reviewer 2: is this link meant to be timestamped?

Author: I believe so. @abihall ?

Reviewer 3: They aren't meant to be timestamped, the whole video is good

</details>

<details>
<summary> Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) </summary>

**Videos:**

- [YouTube: Introduction to SLAM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=saVZtgPyyJQ)

</details>

## Motion

<details> 
<summary>General</summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Motion](/system/subsystems/motion)
- [NUbook: Running and Tuning Scripts](/guides/main/tuning-and-running-scripts)

**Resources:**

- [GitHub: Simscape](https://github.com/NUbots/Simscape)

</details>

## Vision

<details>
<summary>General</summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Vision](/system/subsystems/vision)

> - [NUbook: Maintaining Subsystems # Vision](/guides/main/maintaining-subsystems#vision)

Reviewer 2: This style of link seems slightly jank to me :shrug: 
```suggestion
- [NUbook: Maintaining the Vision Subsystem](/guides/main/maintaining-subsystems#vision)
```

</details>

<details> 
<summary>Visual Mesh</summary>

**Reading:**

- [NUbook: Visual Mesh Getting Started](/guides/tools/visualmesh)

**Resources:**

- [GitHub: Visual Mesh](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh)

</details>

<details>
<summary>Data Collection</summary>

**Reading:**

> - [NUbook: NUpbr](/system/tools/nupbr)

Reviewer 2: I suppose you don't think NUgan is mature enough to link here?

Author: I was considering it, but we don't really use it (yet).

---
section: Guides
chapter: General
title: Learning Resources

> description: Where to find out how to learn about the various aspects of NUbots.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: Find resources to learn about the various aspects of NUbots.
```

slug: /guides/general/learning-resources
---

This page aims to provide direction and resources on where to go to learn more about various areas of NUbots. There is a mixture of resources available, including external resources and material prepared by NUbots team members.

NUbots workshops may be run live, or you can work through them yourself in your own time.

The majority of resources on this page are free. Some LinkedIn Learning videos are linked here - UoN students can get access to LinkedIn Learning for free.

## General

<details>
<summary>Git</summary>

The NUbots team uses Git and GitHub in its development workflow. Almost any project done on the NUbots team involves using Git and GitHub.

**Reading:**

- [Git and PR Workflow](/guides/general/git) [NUbook]

> **Tutorials:**

Reviewer 4: Do we want to link the git part of the video from the online session we did last year?

Author: I'll add this one in, but I think that'll be the last resource to add in for this PR. Further stuff in other PRs, focusing on each section.

- [DeepLizard: Machine Learning & Deep Learning Fundamentals](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gZmobeGL0Yg&list=PLZbbT5o_s2xq7LwI2y8_QtvuXZedL6tQU) [YouTube]

**References:**

- [Official TensorFlow Documentation](https://www.tensorflow.org/overview)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Log and Play Back Data </summary>

**Reading:**

- [Data Recording and Playback Guide](/guides/main/data-recording-playback) [NUbook]
- [Logging](/system/subsystems/logging) [NUbook]

</details>

<details>
<summary> Lab Induction </summary>

The lab induction must be completed before getting swipe card access to the lab.

**Reading:**

- [Lab Induction](/team/induction) [NUbook]

**Tutorials:**

- NUbots lab inductions are run for new team members after they join.

</details>

## Behaviour

<details>
<summary>General</summary>

**Reading:**

- [Behaviour](/system/subsystems/behaviour) [NUbook]

**References:**

- [GameController](https://github.com/RoboCup-Humanoid-TC/GameController) [GitHub]
- [Communication Protocol](https://github.com/RoboCup-Humanoid-TC/RobocupProtocol) [GitHub]

</details>

## DevOps and Quality Assurance

<details>
<summary> The Build System </summary>

**Reading:**

> - [Build System](/system/foundations/build-system) [NUbook]

Reviewer 4: We should probably link the CI page as well.

Author: See Docker comment.

- [Configuration and Script System](/system/foundations/config-script) [NUbook]
- [Modern CMake](https://cliutils.gitlab.io/modern-cmake/)
- [ArchWiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/)

> - [Docker Deep Dive](https://books.google.com.au/books/about/Docker_Deep_Dive.html?id=860yswEACAAJ) [Book]

Reviewer 4: We should probably have another Docker link that's free to access for people on the team. LinkedIn learning has some beginner courses on Docker.

Author: This can be addressed by DevOps when they look at this section in a follow up PR, otherwise this will never get merged 😅

Reviewer 4: Fair 😅

**Tutorials:**

- [Official CMake Tutorial](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial/index.html)

**References:**

- [Official Catch Documentation](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/blob/devel/docs/Readme.md)

</details>

## DevTools

<details>
<summary> Web Development (External Resources) </summary>

Web Development is used in the creation of [NUbook](/system/tools/nubook), which uses JavaScript, Gatsby and Tailwind, and [NUsight](/system/tools/nusight), which uses TypeScript, React and MobX. By working on these systems and going through these resources, you will gain valuable real world skill and experience that is often sought out in industry.

**Videos:**

- [egghead.io: MobX](https://egghead.io/courses/manage-complex-state-in-react-apps-with-mobx)

**Tutorials:**

- [The Modern JavaScript Tutorial](https://javascript.info/)
- [Official Node.js Tutorial](https://nodejs.dev/learn)

> - [egghead.io: A Beginner's Guide to React](https://egghead.io/courses/the-beginner-s-guide-to-react)

Reviewer 4: This is a video course, and should probably be placed with the one above.
